Add seqera container documentation (#3354)
nf-core/website: sites/docs/src/content/docs/tutorials/nf-core_components/using_seqera_containers.md

---
title: "Using Seqera Containers"
subtitle: "Step by step guide to using Seqera Containers in nf-core modules"
weight: 30
---

> 

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Provide a bit of context why we want to do this

Author: ```suggestion
[Seqera Containers](https://seqera.io/containers) simplifies the container creation process for nf-core modules. The following steps will guide you through obtaining both Docker and Singularity containers from the Seqera website to properly configure your module for integration with nf-core workflows.
```

0. (Optional, but recommended) test building the `environment.yml` locally to ensure that the packages and their versions are compatible:

> ```bash
> conda env create -f environment.yml
> ```

Reviewer: **suggestion:** 
```suggestion
    ```bash
    conda env create -f environment.yml
    ```
```

> [Seqera Containers](https://seqera.io/containers) simplifies the container creation process for nf-core modules. The following steps will guide you through obtaining both Docker and Singularity containers from the Seqera website to properly configure your module for integration with nf-core workflows. 0. (Optional, but recommended) test building the `environment.yml` locally to ensure that the packages and their versions are compatible:

Author: ```suggestion
[Seqera Containers](https://seqera.io/containers) simplifies the container creation process for nf-core modules. The following steps will guide you through obtaining both Docker and Singularity containers from the Seqera website to properly configure your module for integration with nf-core workflows. 

0. (Optional, but recommended) test building the `environment.yml` locally to ensure that the packages and their versions are compatible:
```

---
title: "Using Seqera Containers"
subtitle: "Step by step guide to using Seqera Containers in nf-core modules"
weight: 30
---

> [Seqera Containers](https://seqera.io/containers) simplifies the container creation process for nf-core modules. The following steps will guide you through obtaining both Docker and Singularity containers from the Seqera website to properly configure your module for integration with nf-core workflows.

Author: ```suggestion
[Seqera Containers](https://seqera.io/containers) simplifies the container creation process for nf-core modules. 
They are currently supported by nf-core as an alternative to the default `biocontainers` source, however in the future Seqera Containers will be made the default source of containers for all nf-core modules.
For more context see [this](https://nf-co.re/blog/2024/seqera-containers-part-1) blog post.

The following steps will guide you through obtaining both Docker and Singularity containers from the Seqera website to properly configure your module for integration with nf-core workflows. 
```

0. (Optional, but recommended) test building the `environment.yml` locally to ensure that the packages and their versions are compatible:

    ```bash
    conda env create -f environment.yml
    ```

1. Go to [https://seqera.io/containers/](https://seqera.io/containers/)
2. Add all the packages in the search bar (you can copy paste e.g. `conda-forge::<tool>=<version>` from your `environment.yml` file, to make sure you have exactly the right channels/versions).

> 3. Make sure container setting is on `Docker`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Make sure 'Container setting' is on `Docker`.
```

4. Press 'Get Container'.
5. Copy the displayed URL and put it on the last line of your module's `main.nf` container definition (this does _not_ have a `https://` at the beginning!).

> 6. Repeat steps 2-5.

Reviewer 2: This is just a suggestion, but I was confused by having to repeat the steps with `Docker` again
```suggestion
6. Repeat steps 2-5 by switching the 'Container settings' to `Singularity`.
```

Author: isn't it just to get all the different dependencies?

Reviewer 2: 🤔 I don't understand this. You add all the dependencies in point 1, so why do you need to repeat this?

Author: I misunderstood this step. @jfy133 what are we repeating here? Because to get the singularity build I can just switch the engine without needing to reenter anything.

Reviewer 3: Agreeing with @mashehu you just need to switch the engine

Reviewer 3: But why would you want to repeat step 2-5 here?

7. Switch the 'Container settings' to `Singularity`.
8. Press 'Get container'.
9. :grey_exclamation: Tick the `HTTPS` checkbox.
10. Copy the URL (_with_ the `https://community-cr-prod<...>` at the beginning), and put it on the middle line of your module's `main.nf` definition.

> 11. Repeat steps 8-10.

Reviewer 2: Same here

---
title: "Using Seqera Containers"

> subtitle: "Step by step guide to using Seqera Containers in nf-core modules"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
subtitle: "Step-by-step guide to using Seqera Containers in nf-core modules"
```

weight: 30
---

> [Seqera Containers](https://seqera.io/containers) simplifies the container creation process for nf-core modules.
> They are currently supported by nf-core as an alternative to the default `biocontainers` source, however in the future Seqera Containers will be made the default source of containers for all nf-core modules.
> For more context see [this](https://nf-co.re/blog/2024/seqera-containers-part-1) blog post.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Seqera Containers](https://seqera.io/containers) simplifies the container creation process for nf-core modules.
Currently, nf-core supports Seqera Containers as an alternative to the default biocontainers source. In the future, Seqera Containers will become the default source for all nf-core module containers.
For more information, see the [nf-core blog post](https://nf-co.re/blog/2024/seqera-containers-part-1).
```

> The following steps will guide you through obtaining both Docker and Singularity containers from the Seqera website to properly configure your module for integration with nf-core workflows.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to obtain both Docker and Singularity containers from the Seqera Containers website and configure your modules for integration with nf-core workflows.
```

Reviewer 4: Active voice and present tense

> 0. (Optional, but recommended) test building the `environment.yml` locally to ensure that the packages and their versions are compatible:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
0. (Optional but recommended) Test the `environment.yml` file locally to ensure that all packages and their versions are compatible:
```

   ```bash
   conda env create -f environment.yml
   ```

> 1. Go to [https://seqera.io/containers/](https://seqera.io/containers/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Open the [Seqera Containers website](https://seqera.io/containers/).
```

> 2. Add all the packages in the search bar (you can copy paste e.g. `conda-forge::<tool>=<version>` from your `environment.yml` file, to make sure you have exactly the right channels/versions).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. In the search bar, add all the required packages. You can copy and paste entries directly from your `environment.yml` file (for example, `conda-forge::<TOOL>=<VERSION>`) to ensure that the correct channels and versions are used.
```

   :::warning

>    Remember that nf-core modules SHOULD only have a single tool (and its dependencies) per module!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   nf-core modules SHOULD include only a single tool and its required dependencies.
```

   Only add additional tools when necessary.
   :::

> 3. Make sure 'Container setting' is on `Docker`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Set **Container setting**  to `Docker`.
```

> 4. Press 'Get Container'.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Select **Get Container**.

> 5. Copy the displayed URL and put it on the last line of your module's `main.nf` container definition (this does _not_ have a `https://` at the beginning!).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Copy the generated container URL and add it to the last line of the container definition in your module’s `main.nf` file.

    :::note
    The URL does not include `https://` at the beginning. Copy it exactly as shown.
    :::
```

> 6. Switch the 'Container settings' to `Singularity`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. Change the **Container settings** to `Singularity`.
```

> 7. Press 'Get container'.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
7. Select **Get container**.
```

> 8. :grey_exclamation: Tick the `HTTPS` checkbox. This checkbox is only available after the container has been built.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
8. :grey_exclamation: Select the **HTTPS** checkbox.

    :::note
    This checkbox appears only after the container has been successfully built.
    :::
```

> 9. Copy the URL (_with_ the `https://community-cr-prod<...>` at the beginning), and put it on the middle line of your module's `main.nf` definition.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
9. Copy the generated URL (including the `https://community-cr-prod...` prefix) and add it to the middle line of the container definition in your module’s `main.nf` file.
```

0. (Optional, but recommended) test building the `environment.yml` locally to ensure that the packages and their versions are compatible:

   ```bash
   conda env create -f environment.yml
   ```

1. Go to [https://seqera.io/containers/](https://seqera.io/containers/)
2. Add all the packages in the search bar (you can copy paste e.g. `conda-forge::<tool>=<version>` from your `environment.yml` file, to make sure you have exactly the right channels/versions).

    :::warning
    Remember that nf-core modules SHOULD only have a single tool (and its dependencies) per module!
    Only add additional tools when necessary.
    :::
3. Make sure 'Container setting' is on `Docker`.
4. Press 'Get Container'.
5. Copy the displayed URL and put it on the last line of your module's `main.nf` container definition (this does _not_ have a `https://` at the beginning!).
6. Repeat steps 2-5.
7. Switch the 'Container settings' to `Singularity`.
8. Press 'Get container'.
9. :grey_exclamation: Tick the `HTTPS` checkbox.
10. Copy the URL (_with_ the `https://community-cr-prod<...>` at the beginning), and put it on the middle line of your module's `main.nf` definition.
11. Repeat steps 8-10.

> :::note
> See the blog post about our [Migration from Biocontainers to Seqera Containers](https://nf-co.re/blog/2024/seqera-containers-part-1) for more information on why we are using Seqera Containers and how they compare to Biocontainers.
> :::

Author: ```suggestion
```
